BBC
Accessibility links
Skip to contentAccessibility Help
Sign in
BBC navigation
News
Sport
Weather
Shop
Earth
Travel
More
Search the BBC
Search
Search the BBC
News navigation
Home
Video
World
US & Canada
selected
UK
Business
Tech
Science
Magazine
Entertainment & Arts
Health
In Pictures
 More sections
US & Canada
selected
US Election 2016
San Bernardino shooting: Police kill two suspects after hunt
18 minutes ago
 From the section US & Canada
Jump media playerMedia player helpOut of media player. Press enter to return or tab to continue.
Media caption14 people were left dead after the shooting at a community centre in California - this is how events unfolded
US gun debate

US gun violence in numbers
Video Obama 'most frustrated' by gun laws
Why Obama is powerless to reform gun laws
US state to allow armed teachers
Police in California have named two suspects killed after a mass shooting which left 14 people dead at a social services centre.
The man and woman, Syed Rizwan Farook, 28, and Tashfeen Malik, 27, were killed in an exchange of fire with police.
Farook had been a San Bernardino public health employee for five years, police chief Jarrod Burguan said.
The attack took place at an event on Wednesday for Farook's colleagues. None of the victims has been identified.
No motive has been established, but the FBI is considering both workplace violence and terrorism, according to David Bowdich from the bureau's Los Angeles office.
The Inland Regional Center, where the shooting took place, provides services for people with developmental disabilities, but the shooting appeared to be unrelated to its clients.
The incident marks the deadliest mass shooting in the US since 26 people were killed at a school in Newtown, Connecticut in 2012.
San Bernardino shooting: What we know
Community shock at shooting
Politicians 'shamed' for offering prayers
Mr Burguan, who said another 17 people were wounded, said police were "reasonably confident" that there were just two shooters.
A third person seen running from the scene was detained, but police said it was unclear whether that person was involved.
Both suspects were killed in their vehicle after a shoot-out with police involving 20 officers. A tip-off had earlier led police to a house in nearby Redlands.
Jump media playerMedia player helpOut of media player. Press enter to return or tab to continue.
Media captionSan Bernardino Police Chief Jarrod Burguan gives details of the suspects
An SUV with its windows shot out that police suspect was the getaway vehicle from at the scene of a shooting in San Bernardino, California is shown in this aerial photo December 2, 201Image copyrightReuters
Image caption
Police riddled a black SUV - identified earlier as the getaway car - with bullets, killing two suspects
The dead man and woman were believed to be a couple, the police chief said. They were armed with assault rifles and semi-automatic handguns and wore military-style clothing.
The authorities said all the weapons had been purchased legally but did not explain how they got into the hands of the perpetrators.
One police officer was injured, but his injuries are not life threatening.
Three possible explosive devices were found at the Inland Regional Center, where the shooting took place.
Mr Burguan said that Farook had left the event - which was possibly a holiday party for employees or a meeting - "under some circumstances that were described as angry," and returned with Malik.
San Bernardino is a city of about 200,000 people, 60 miles (100 km) east of Los Angeles.
At the scene: James Cook, BBC News, Los Angeles correspondent
As darkness fell, San Bernardino felt more like a warzone than a city in California. For much of the day the air had been alive with the sound of sirens, helicopters and, at times, gunfire.
Outside the social services centre where the shooting began, the wounded were treated on a street which resembled a field hospital.
Suddenly paramilitary-style police, explosives experts and ambulances took off in a wail of noise. They were racing to the scene of a gun battle with the suspects.
For this city, it has been a day of panic and chaos, as people struggle to cope with America's worst mass shooting in three years. By one measure though, there has been more than one mass shooting on average every day this year.
In that respect this was just another day in the United States of America.
At around 11:00 local time (19:00 GMT) on Wednesday, the shooting began at the social services centre. Hundreds of people were evacuated as police officers swept through the massive complex.
Others locked themselves in rooms waiting for police to arrive.
"People shot. In the office waiting for cops. Pray for us. I am locked in an office," Terry Petit's daughter said in a text message to him from inside the centre.
The Inland Regional Center complex is pictured in an aerial photo following a shooting incident in San Bernardino, California December 2, 2015.Image copyrightReuters
Image caption
The Inland Regional Center specialises in helping adults with disabilities and mental health problems
Evacuees leave the scene of a shooting at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino, California, USA, 02 December 2015Image copyrightEPA
Image caption
Employees were evacuated from the social services centre
The attack took place in a conference area where the San Bernardino County Department of Public Health was holding a social event, said Maybeth Field, the centre's president.
Farook, who was born in the US, worked for the county as an environmental health specialist, police said. They had no information on whether he had a criminal record, nor further details on Malik.
Colleagues told the Los Angeles Times that Farook had travelled to Saudi Arabia and returned with a new wife. The couple had a young baby, they said.
The pair had dropped off their infant with relatives early on Wednesday, Hussam Ayloush of the Council on American-Islamic Relations said after talking with family.
Farook's brother-in-law Farhan Khan told a press conference he had "absolutely no idea" what could have prompted the shooting.
Map
The mass shooting comes just days after three people were killed at a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic.
US President Barack Obama said in response to the shooting: "One thing we do know is that we have a pattern of mass shootings in this country that has no parallel anywhere in the world.
"There are some steps that we could take, not to eliminate all incidents, but to make sure they happen less frequently."
Are you in the area? Did you witness the shooting? If you have any information you wish to share with BBC News, you can do so by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:
Whatsapp: +44 7525 900971
Send pictures/video to yourpics@bbc.co.uk
Upload your pictures/video here
Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSay
Send an SMS or MMS to 61124 or +44 7624 800 100
Or use the form below
Your contact details
Name

Your E-mail address (required)

Town & Country

Your telephone number

Comments (required)

If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.
Terms and conditions
Send
Share this story About sharing
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
US gun debate

US gun violence in numbers
2 October 2015
Video Obama 'most frustrated' by gun laws
23 July 2015
Why Obama is powerless to reform gun laws
4 October 2015
US state to allow armed teachers
8 March 2013
Video Mums v Guns
12 February 2014
Watch/Listen

Video Obama, mass shootings and gun control
19 June 2015
Video Amy Schumer's emotional plea on guns
4 August 2015
Video Why Texas women carry firearms
14 June 2015
Video How a US liberal learned to love guns
5 April 2013
Video 'A teacher with a gun could have stopped him'
11 March 2013
Video Would more guns save more American lives?
9 January 2013
Features and analysis

Viewpoints: Should US gun laws change?
18 December 2012
Guns a part of American childhood
28 August 2014
What's behind growing gun support in US?
16 December 2014
Will gun laws hurt the mentally ill?
29 March 2013
Viewpoint: Expect evil, offer forgiveness
18 December 2012
Dunblane's lessons for Connecticut
15 January 2013
US & Canada
Cars exiting the Baur au Lac hotel
SPORT Fifa vice-presidents held in Zurich
7 minutes ago
 From the section Football
Full article Fifa vice-presidents held in Zurich
Trudeau has used Canadian taxpayers' money to fund child care for his three children.
Canada PM under fire for child care
2 December 2015
From the section US & Canada
Full article Canada PM under fire for child care
Guantanamo Bay
Guantanamo prisoner 'wrongly accused'
2 December 2015
From the section US & Canada
Full article Guantanamo prisoner 'wrongly accused'
Top Stories
Suspects named after US mass shooting
Two heavily armed suspects - a man and a woman - are killed by police after a mass shooting in California left 14 people dead.
18 minutes ago
Oscar Pistorius guilty of murder
1 hour ago
Fifa vice-presidents held in Zurich
7 minutes ago
Features & Analysis

Chicago police superintendent Garry McCarthy
Chicago 'cover up'
The whistleblower that brought down a city's top cop
 Man with so wrong written next to him VIDEO 2:26
Stumped
Americans guess how equal their society really is
 Amy Peake
Menstrual mission
How a yoga teacher became a sanitary pad missionary
 Vladimir Putin floors a judo opponent, 22 Dec 10
Showing who's boss
The career of action man Vladimir Putin
 Image of film-maker Pavel Giroud - December 2015
Indie islanders
How film-makers are breaking the mould in Cuba
 Kala Ghoda area, Mumbai
The Last Waltz
Why Mumbai's iconic cultural hub is fraying
 Sweatshirt with Spunk logo
Brave branding
The company name you'll never forget
 Traumatised hospital patient in Burundi
'Spreading hatred'
Is Burundi on the verge of a return to ethnic conflict?
 Woman who alleges she had a forced sterilisation
Against their will
The Peruvian women who were forcibly sterilised
Most Popular popular
Read selected
Watched
Most read
1
Oscar Pistorius guilty of murder
2
Viking skeleton goes on display
3
Nigeria reduces $5.2bn MTN fine
4
UK bombs IS: Syrians give reactions
5
Forth bridge restrictions to continue
6
Turkey's downing of Russian warplane - what we know
7
Sir Bruce to miss Strictly special
8
Community shock at California shooting
9
Putin: Turkey 'will regret' Syria act
10
Russia to Turkey: Don't try it again
BBC News Services
On your mobile
On your connected TV
Get news alerts
Contact BBC News
Explore the BBC

News
Sport
Weather
Shop
Earth
Travel
Capital
Culture
Autos
Future
TV
Radio
CBBC
CBeebies
Food
Make It Digital
iWonder
Bitesize
Music
Nature
Local
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Advertise with us
Ad choices
Copyright © 2015 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.

